---
toc: true
layout: post
categories: [CSP Assignments]
title: Student teaching grades
---

# Unit 3 Sections 1-2 (Our group)
We got a 2.4/3 on our grading because we were too lenient and also didn't put a reason for why we gave the grades we gave.

# Unit 3 Sections 3-4
I got a 1/1 on this group's hw because my code was original and worked perfectly.

# Unit 3 Sections 5-7
I got a 0.9/1 on this group's hw. Their reason was "They got his grade since they fully completed the homework assignment using their own code." I think that I got this grade because I did research on the internet to complete their hw and also used notes from last tri to add something a little extra.

# Unit 3 Sections 8 and 10
I got a 0.9/1 on this group's hw. Their reason was "Thorough notes. Challenges are fully complete. Good reflection on challenges. Quiz is fully complete with no hacks." I can agree with the fact that I blogged my mistakes and I definately don't deserve higher than a 0.9 because I didn't do any hacks and my quiz was also a little scuffed.

# Unit 3 Sections 9 and 11
I got a 0.7/1 on this group's hw. This is because it was late and was also missing some classwork. I finished their homework problem with complete, original code.

# Unit 3 Sections 12 and 13
I got a 0.9/1 on this group's hw. This is because my notes weren't really top tier and completed with original code. I also had undefined in the min and max procedures which was different from others.

# Unit 3 Sections 14 and 15
I got a 0.85/1 on this group's hw. This is because I completed all the challenges and did some of the extra points options. But, I submitted late.

# Unit 3 Section 16
I got a 0.9 on this group's hw. Their reason was: had all the notes completed, all the classwork and hacks were completed, except for the closet hack we asked for. Did the quiz and answered the questions, and even did the extra hack, number 6.

# Unit 3 Section 17-18
I got a 0.95 on this groups hw. Their reason was: Lots of notes, completed both the challenge and the homework